So, at this point in our game we're doing really well, but our
defenders are firing all the
time, regardless of who is in their lane. So, what
we want to do in this video is,
find a way of defenders detecting that there are attackers
in the lane. Only shoot at attackers
if they are ahead of the defender
in the lane. If they're past and they've gone behind, a bit to late right.
We're going to make significant modifications to the Shooter.cs
class, to make all of this work, and then, test
that defenders enter and leave the Attack state,
so that ultimately, if I say put a gnome down here,
he won't be bouncing around and agitated, he'll be blissfully
chilled that there's nothing he can do about the lizard behind him. [Laughs]
So, he could just turn around and shoot at him, of course, but that's
not how this game works and this is the exercise right.
So, they will only start attacking when their is something ahead of them,
in the lane, and when there is no longer anything ahead, they will stop
attacking. Cool! So, how are we going to do
this? Well, good question! Let's go dive into our Shooter code, right.
So, go find your
Shooter.cs Script class, both,
and let's take a look at how we're going to modify it. Well, let's
start with the kind of crux of it. It's that every
frame, so in the Update cycle...
If I can just remember how to spell Update,
not the most complex word. What are we going to do every
single update? Well, good question? But basically, we're going to say that
if there's an attacker ahead in the lane, then
we want to shoot at it. Otherwise, we want
to not be in Attacker state, right. So, why not just
write that in code, as soon as we think about it and have ourselves a
wishful method that doesn't exist yet, which isAttackerAheadIn
Lane. Well, I'll get you to write that later. So,
if (isAttackerAheadIn
Lane(). Nice long method name, I make no apologies.
Then, again let's
hope that we have an animator, which we don't yet.
So, the Autocomplete is
going to mess around with me.
I may have to just force it to do what I say, animator.
SetBool (" isAttacking"
to true
OK, else.
So, if there's not an attacker ahead in the lane then...
Well there isn't, then what do we do? Then,
we do exactly the same thing, but we set the attacker back to a
animation state of false. Now, my inclination here, before
I go any further, would be to pop over to the Animator and make sure
that this Bool is attacking, is in there and spelled
exactly like that. So, let's do that on our
attackers. Let's make sure that both of them, in their Animators...
And by the way, you can drag your Animator, say
over to the right here, and see it right
next to the actual
assets, if you wish to, like this. OK.
So, IsAttacking we have on the Fox there, and it's
spelled correctly. And IsAttacking we have on the Lizard. Great!
So, that's helpful, before we go any further trying to set Bools that don't exist!
So, that's the crux of it actually.
Of course, it doesn't work yet, but this is quite cool, because we can now start
solving the problems. Firstly, we don't have an Animator,
so we're just going to have to go ahead and do the pretty rope thing
of finding the Animator. Why don't you, as a mini challenge,
have a go at doing that. You can listen to me, maybe, while you do it. See if you can
do it before I do. Find the Animator,
and store it in a private member variable.
OK, private Animator animator; That gives all methods in this
class access to an Animator, and then, on the Start we best go
find it right. So, how are we going to do that?
Well, we've done a GameObject.Find there,
for the projectileParent. I'm going to keep it above that code, to keep these things
separate.
It's simply animator = GameObject
.FindObjectOftype
is the one you want. And then,
<animator>(); Remember,
it's a method and close the brackets. Cool! So now, down here this animator.
SetBool is OK. Right, then the other thing we need
is a method called IsAttackerAheadInLane.
Let me just fix that typo there, it needs to be capitals. Great! IsAttacker
AheadInLane. So, I'm going to write, isAttackerAheadInLane and it's going to
return a bool.
And for now, I'm just going to return true
to prove that this works and also try changing it to false,
so return true. Let's just
check it all works, and then, I'm going to get you to write the actual method.
So, isAttackerAheadInLane is always saying, yes
so they're always agitated. Fine! Now, let's try changing the code
so it always returns false.
Now what happens when I place my
guys down? Look how chilled that gnome is, just blinking away.
OK, the cactus is a little less chilled. He's sweating but maybe that's
just the heat, but at least they're doing nothing. Of course, they're
not responding yet, because isAttackerAheadInLane method
doesn't do jack yet. So,
how are we going to do this? How are we going to get isAttackerAhead
InLane working? Well, the general architecture that I think
would make sense is to base it on whether or
not your spawner, i.e. the Spawner
for the lane that you are his has any children.
Let me show you that, over in Unity.
Let's imagine I've placed a gnome. He's there in that lane. In fact,
let me come out of Maximize on Play, so we can see it all together.
So, I've placed a gnome in lane 1. Let's keep
things simple. There he is! Where are the Spawners?
Over here, we have a Spawner for lane 1 and its
Y position is 1, precisely, and
because of all the careful work we've done on the gnome,
his root transform Y position is also
1, precisely. So, we can just say if
the Spawner, with Y
coordinate 1, has no children,
then there's nothing ahead in the lane. If it has children, like it does now, you see
see little lizards then it's got two children right now. You see them
here under the Spawner. There are attackers in the lane.
So, that's the first part of the problem, is just finding
out if there are attackers in the lane at all,
and then, we're going to modify if slightly to say are they ahead
of us, in the lane looking at the X coordinate?
So that's relatively simple! Cool!
OK, so the first thing we need to do is find our Spawner,
so why don't we get you to do that? So, let's
just get you setup to win here. We're going to have a private member
variable, of type Spawner, and I'm going to call it
myLaneSpawner; This is where
the instance, the actual shooter, is going to store a reference
to his Spawner. OK. And now,
I want a method that is going to find out whether
or not there's anything in the lane. And now, we
want a method that is going to set this myLane
Spawner for us. So, it's going to be void
setMyLane
Spawner (). And what that method is going
to do is to "Look
through all spawners, and
set" member variable, or just be specific,
"my LaneSpawner if found".
OK, so I want you to write the set
MyLaneSpawner method. So, here's your challenge
slide for it! That's your signature,
at the top. Look through all of the Spawners, loop through
them. Find the one with the same Y position as yours.
If you can find it, set the private Spawner
myLaneSpawner, that we just set at the top. If you can't find it
return an error. There's your challenge!
I know you're up to it, and I just know you're going to pause the video!
I bet you've already paused the video. Surely you've already paused it.
You paused it? Cool! Alright, so
welcome back! Hopefully you have done nicely with that
challenge. Let's see how I approach it! It's not necessarily
the only way! It's not necessarily the right way, it's just a way!
So, we're going to have a Spawner array, for a start!
The way we define that is, we say Spawner then a pair of empty square brackets.
And what shall I call it? Well, why don't I cryptically call
it spawnerArray! Yeah!
That sounds good! OK, and
what is that? Well, we're going to need to FindObjects
OfType<Spawner>();
Cool hey!
So, that line is going to go ahead and put all of
the Spawners, if there are any I hope there are, into the spawner
Array. Let's just be clear on what we mean by the Spawners, that's obviously these
things. There's five of them in our scene. Cool! So, they
end up in that array. What next? Well, we've got the nice foreach
loop haven't we? We've got foreach,
and then, what's the syntax? Type
first, (Spawner spawner [Laughs]
keep it simple, in spawnerArray).
So, for each one of those guys, what are we going to do?
Well, if the (spawner.transform
.position.y
== remember for a comparison,
transform.position. Small t, the transform
of the current GameObject, which is the shooter
in question, i.e. the cactus or the gnome,
transform.position.y)
So if that happens, then we've got a situation
in which, as I showed you, the gnome and
the Spawner or the cactus and the Spawner are in the same position
in Y, so that must be the LaneSpawner.
Simply say it, myLaneSpawner =, this time it's an assignment =
the spawner, from this loop of
foreach loop. OK.
Hopefully that makes sense. What would happen if we
can't find the Spawner? Well, I want to log an error, so I
could just put my error code at the bottom here, but I need to do a return
first. I just need to say return; i.e. get out of here,
stop executing this method, if
we find it. If we don't find it, this is when we come along
and go Debug.LogError, and it is an error, because this
is a show stopper! That's what I mean by an error!
Put out the name gnome, etc., just to help
the designer or you find the problem. " can't find
spawner in lane").
And that means if you don't have a Spawner in the lane or if the
Spawner isn't precisely set at the Y coordinate of the shooter,
you'll get an error, otherwise it will work!
That's pretty cool! So, how do we know that's
working? Well, let's go into the Start method, and just
say, print for now. (set...
Well, actually let's just do it this way: set
MyLaneSpawner; Call the method. Now, what's wrong?
What's the confusion? It's the s, I've used a method
name starting with a small letter. That's inconsistent with how
we do things, right, and that's why you can
get yourself confused, so use capitalization
to your advantage. There you go! We're looking
for a method, set my LaneSpawner.
Fantastic! It doesn't need any parameters. It will set the member
variable. And if immediately after that, we print my
LaneSpawner, let's see what we get. What do you think
we're going to get, by the way? How many different log entries do you think we're going to get? One,
two, five? Well, let's see what we end up getting!
If I put
a defender down...
OK, now let's zoom so we can see the log a little better.
We have a single entry, because this gnome has done his check!
Put another guy down, we get another entry. Put another
guy down. So, for each defender that we put down, they
find their Spawner, and then, all the new ones also find
their Spawner. That's fine! That's great! So, we're finding Spawners!
Congratulations! So in the Start of this
method, what are we doing? We are firstly
finding the Animator. That's pretty clear. I don't think I need to comment it.
The next little block of code "Creates
a parent if necessary".
Now, yes you could
refactor that out to another method, but you could also just
leave it there and use spacing to your advantage. Then, you Set
MyLaneSpawner. Is there anything else that we need to do at the
Start of this method? I don't think so, at the moment.
I think that's most of it. Now, you should be equipped, given
that you have the LaneSpawner and
everything else wrapping around this. You should be able to
write isAttackerAheadInLane(). Now of course, I
have also stared a method with a small i, so I'm going to use a
capital i. All your method names, you want to start with
big I's right, so then I need to fix it up here.
Cool! So, you go ahead and write IsAttackerAheadInLane.
I think you're ready for it! There's a
signature!
Check that these guys enter the Attack state, when you've
written this, when there are things ahead, and check they leave
the Attack state, when there's nothing ahead. Now, if you ant to break this problem down
into two, by just checking that there's an attacker in the lane at all,
that's fine. And then add the bit that does the ahead.
Good challenge for you, have a go at it!
Okie Dokie! So, how do we make this IsAttacker
AheadInLane method work?
Well, let's break it down! Firstly, I want it
to just get out of here, if there are no attackers, because there's no point in
looking through all of the attackers in the lane, to find out where they are
left and right if there are none. So, "Exit if no
attackers in lane" right, and it's fine to write comments
and then write the code to make the comment work. That's great!
So, "Exit if there's not attackers in lane".
What does that look like? if (myLaneSpawner
.transform.childCount.
There's a useful method! If it's less than
equal to 0, why less than? Well, it's unlikely to become
negative, but let's catch it if it ever did become negative.
If the childCount of my Lane
Spawner is 0, basically, then we return false.
Great! So that has
done the behavior that says, exit if there are no attackers
in lane. Now, we could log this, if you wanted
to, but I'm just going to confidently keep writing the code, actually, because I'm
pretty sure that's going to work. If you were struggling or
if you want to stop now and carry on the challenge, then you know, feel free
to put log entries in, but put them above the return statement please. If you
try logging, after the return statement, then you're not going to get very
much joy, or you might not depending on the timing, so
put it above. OK, so if we find
an attacker, "If there are attackers, are
they ahead?" is the next question right.
I mean not losing the thing on your shoulders, but the thing right in front of you. You get my idea.
So, foreach...
Let's try typing... foreach what?
(Transform, why do we use the transforms? Because that's the only bit we're interested
in, child, because it's each of the children,
in myLaneSpawner
.transform); Ooh, now that's a
weird foreach definition. foreach (Transform child
in myLandSpawner.transform). Just talk about
that for a second, that's a bit weird! Let's go to Unity's docs
for a transforms, for a second.
It's only a little bit weird, but it's a little bit weird because if you
read here, it just subtly slips in.
The transforms also support enumerators, so you can
loop through children. OK, it just
says that in the docs there, easy to miss. So, what this code
is doing is using that. It's saying, I'm
going to go through a whole bunch of children in myLaneSpawner
.transform). I'm going to look at the transform's children and loop through them,
using that built in enumerator. Alright, so
a little bit different to the normal foreach you've writing, but hopefully you've found
a similar solution. Then, for each one we say something
and we say if. If what? Well,
if (child.transform
.position.x
is > transform.position.x...
i.e. if the child's
transform's x position, i.e. the child of the
Spawner is the Defender. So, that's what's
coming into the child variable, each time you go around
this foreach loop. It is actually the Defender,
so we could call it that if it's easier. We can
call this Defender. Let's do that! OK, let me just
finish this command, and then, I'm going to rename something. So,
if the x position is greater, then you return true. That's basically
what we're saying, but rather than saying remove child, let's try
calling it defender, see how that reads,
because the only children of Spawners are Defenders.
Attackers, attackers! Sue me!
OK, so Transform attacker!
Does this read better? in myLaneSpawner.transform)
if (attacker.transform.position.x is > transform
Yeah, that's better! Then, return true!
So, this just makes it explicit that we are looping through
attackers. Still a little bit weird! Why are we
looping through attackers, when we're looking at a Spawner? Because
the only enumeration that works on this Spawner's transform
is on the children
of the Spawner's transform. So, what's the children
of the Spawner's transform? It is all of
the transforms of the attackers that
get spawned. Does that make sense?
The Spawner transform has
attackers chilled to it, and
that is what's returned into attacker here. So, it's just worth
laboring and thinking about this a little bit. Alright, let's see how we're getting on.
Are we anywhere near working?
So, we're complaining that isAttackerAheadInLane?
Not all code paths return a value, and because we want a Bool
out of this thing, it demands that we make
sure we cover all cases. So, we may have nothing in our lane, in which case
we say false, there's nothing in the lane. We may have something
in the lane, but how about if we
have children but they're not ahead of us in the lane?
Well then, we need to return false.
And then, you could comment that, if you like.
"Attackers in lane, but
behind us." OK, that's that
condition, and the compiler has very helpfully told us, hey you've forgotten
a condition here! Not all code paths return a value!
Cool! Does this work? This is the half a million
dollar question. Let's try it! So first
thing, we're going to need some enemies and some attackers. Look at our attackers! Look at this
gnome in his zen like... This guy, at the bottom, in his zen
like state, just blinking away right! And then, anybody
that's got an attacker in their lane is all agitated. Let's
try a gnome behind the fox, at the top here!
Ah, he's chilled, because the gnome is behind him.
Pretty cool! Let's try putting a gravestone in the way of the fox!
Useless, foxes jump straight over gravestones! It appears
to be working! So, if you got all of that working on your own, congratulations!
If you needed a bit of help, congratulations! And if you needed to
watch all of my videos, congratulations for just getting it
done! So well done, we now have defenders
detecting attackers properly!